>> Kyle Simpson: Even though it's not that
difficult to make an object with a next
method on it, and define what it does,
I think we can all agree that this is
a fairly imperative approach to adopting
the iterator protocol for an object.
So it would be nice if there was
some other way of more declaratively
creating an iterator producing function.
And that leads us to generators.
On line 1 you see an *
appear at the very top.
Right at the very top you see an *
that indicates that we are dealing
with a special kind of
function called a generator.
This is a new type of function
that was added in the ES6, and
there's lots of complexities to generators
that we're not gonna cover now.
But the one thing that you need to
understand is that generators when you
invoke them, they don't run, they produce
an iterator like we see here on line 8.
And that iterator,
since it's a standard iterator,
has a dot next method on
it like we see on line 10.
And when you call dot next on a iterator
that's attached to a generator,
it is going to give you the value that
was yielded out from that generator.
This new keyword yield allows
a generator to produce
additional values every
time it's iterated over.
So when I say yield 1, we get out and
iterate a result that
says value 1 done false.
And when I say yield 2 we get value to
done false and then value 3 done false.
And then you'll notice because
I use a return keyword on line
5 when we get the value 4 out,
now it says done true, because we know for
sure that iterator doesn't have
any other results to produce.
There is, however,
a bit of a gotcha with the usage of
the return keyword inside a generator.
Look down on line 15, when I do
a dot-dot-dot over this generator,
and it consumes the iterator
according to that protocol,
as soon as it sees a done true, it stops.
It doesn't keep the value at that moment
it assumes that it is iterated past it,
so that is the effect of
throwing away the value 4.
It's why it doesn't show up
in the array down online 15.
So what you need to know is if you're
gonna make your own iterator using
a generator like this you wanna make
sure that you always yield values
instead of returning values.
If you yield those values, they will come
out according to the iterator protocol and
then they'll be iterated over.
It's generally considered a bad practice
to return a value from a generator.
>> Kyle Simpson: So now,
armed with this information,
if we know that making a generator and
yielding values that seems like
a really good way of defining our own
iterators and any object that we want.
And if I could do a yield 1, 2, and 3,
then I could also imagine, for
example, having a for loop.
And having a yield keyword inside of a for
loop, and then yielding out values for
each iteration of my loop.
And that's how we'll actually define
our iterator for our obj object.
Line 5, you'll notice that I have
this star here that indicates that
this function is going to
be that generator type.
I'm putting it at that special
location symbol.iterator, and
it's just a concise method it
doesn't take any inputs here.
Its behavior by default is to
iterate over all the keys.
And by the way, I'm using a for-of
loop inside of my iterator.
Why does that work?
Because object.keys returns me an array,
and arrays are iterables.
So here I'm gonna loop over all of
the elements in the array, being keys,
and then I'm simply going to yield out
this [key], which would be the value,
so it would be the value 1 and
then the value 2 and the value 3.
And the generator takes care of all of
that plumbing about making iterators that
have next methods that can be called,
and preparing the iterator results, and
all of that and all I need to focus on
in this code is what value to yield out.
That's what makes this
a more declarative approach,
is that I simply yield out my values.
Here, I decided to make my iterator,
in other words, the iteration over obj is
that you don't care about the keys,
you only care about the values.
But imagine what would happen if
instead of saying yield this of key,
what would happen if I said yield key?
>> Kyle Simpson: Well, now the iteration
would be seeing quote a, quote b, and
quote c.
So there are multiple kinds of
iterations that might be useful.
Iterating over an object's
values would be useful.
Iterating over its keys would be useful.
And by the way it turns out we have
object.keys and we have object.values and
they produce an iteration
over the keys and the values.
But what about something
that combine both of them?
What if I wanted to get both the key and
the value?
Well then,
I could define something called entries.
An entry is a tuple, and
a tuple is just a two-element array, and
that's a fancy way of
saying a two-element array.
A tuple where the first element
in the tuple is the key,
and the second element is the value.
So what would I do on line 7?
I would return square bracket array and
I'd return key comma, this of key.
And then someone would be able
to receive both the keys and
the values as they iterated
over my data structure.
>> Kyle Simpson: So we have object.values
to iterate over an object's values that
you don't have to define your own anymore,
you can just use that built-in utility.
We have object.keys, which actually,
we've had since ES5, and
that gives us an array of all the keys.
And now we have object.entries, which
gives us an array of all those tuples.
So if that's the built-in way of
doing that then all you have to do is
on your data structures define
those three iterators yourself.
Iterate over your values, iterate over
your keys, and iterate over your entries.
You don't have to but
it's a good idea to make it as easy for
someone to consume your
data structure as possible.
>> Kyle Simpson: If I then wanted to
do something like dot dot dot, and
not get the default, because if
you do dot dot dot over an array,
the default is to essentially
give you array values.
But If I wanted to be able
to do dot dot dot and
get an iteration over its indexes,
then instead of saying
dot dot dot array,
I could say dot dot dot array dot keys.
Or I could say dot dot dot array dot
values or dot dot dot array dot entries,
or a for-of loop over the dot values,
dot entries or dot keys.
All of those would be standard ways.
So when you make your own data structures,
it's a good idea not only to define your
default iterator, like we have here on
line 5, you're making a default iterator.
But also go ahead expose any other
way that would be useful for
somebody to iterate over
your data structure.
>> Student: I have a question.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah.
>> Student: Can you mutate your
iterable in a for-of loop or
are you gonna find yourself in a world
of pain, or be prevented from that?
Like if I wanted to remove
something in the middle and
I want to do it in a for-of loop
how much is that gonna hurt?
>> Kyle Simpson: That's
an interesting question.
So the standard answer to that is that the
built in iterators that JavaScript has,
the standardized iterator protocol,
is that they essentially act as
if they are iterating over a snapshot
of the thing at the beginning.
So you're not seeing that implementation
detail here where I would've captured
the list of keys at the beginning and
then captured all its values and
then looped them out.
The built in ones behave
as if that is the case.
And here if you were to mutate
it you would actually be
affecting the iteration as it went.
So you can do that but
it can create some very weird results.
Not for you as much as for
the consumer of your system where
they iterate something out, and
they are like wait what happened to
this value, or why did I get this value?
So it's a good idea to consider not doing
mutation in line with your iteration.
>> Student: I ask cuz some languages will
prevent you from it, so [LAUGH] yeah.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah, well, JavaScript's
not gonna stop you from doing so, but it's
basically modeling how you probably ought
to do it, which is capture your context,
or your snapshot, if you will,
at iterate over that.
Don't make mutations in line with it.
>> Student2: Could you abstract that
generator out of the object and
refer to it in the object in
that last space of the object?
>> Student: Something going
on the generate side.
[LAUGH]
>> Kyle Simpson: So I think that question
is saying, do I have to list the generator
as an in line concise method
in the object literal, or
can that be defined somewhere else?
And the answer you can point a property,
like symbol.iterator,
at an existing function reference
that exists externally to the object.
It is much more common to define
the iterator directly on the object.
But if that doesn't make
sense in your scenario,
or maybe you're gonna put that iterator
on the prototype of some object
in your object chain or
something like that.
It doesn't physically have to actually
be added to the object literal,
just has to be accessible to that object
when somebody tries to iterate over it.
Because the dot-dot-dot operator and
the for-of operator, they're sort of dumb,
they're basically just gonna say,
do you have access to a,
can you give me something
at this property location?
And if at that moment they do,
great, and if not,
then they're not gonna be able
to iterate over your object.
>> Kyle Simpson: Other questions
about iterators and generators?